***22022-01-28***

## Participants

Teodor (ELI)
Miguel (ILL)
Giuseppe (EGI)
Oliver (HZDR)
Antoinne (SOLEIL)
Aljosa (CERIC)
Stella (ESS)
Petra (ESS)
Kareem (ESS)



# Agenda 

3. MS 8.5
4. Redesign
5. EOSC Future
2. Content in PaN-Learning.org
6. Updates on ExPaNDS and PaNOSC


# Minutes


# 2022-01-28

## 1. MS 8.5

Agreed with PaNOSC management to postpone deliverable and organize workshop. Doru shared the agenda and Thomas commented that he would 'lessons-learned' to be included. Doru changed the agenda accordingly. Doru has also received input to the report from other facilities.


## 2. D5.2 updates
Report is finished and uploaded to [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/record/5171766). They were requested to look at more training catalogues and have thus looked at seven in total.


## 3. Umbrella updates

UmbrellaID (and OrchidId) is working (also for Jupyter) but is still running on test environment. Planning to move to production soon. Doru reported that many issues with Umbrella ID was due to expired certificate - updated by now. GEANT will update monitoring tools to discover this kind of issues in due time. Oliver will discuss with HZDR how to get UmbrellaID up running for the training catalogue. 

## 4. Other ExPaNDS updates
Oliver reported that [ExPaNDS Symposium for Librarians and Data Managers](https://expands.eu/2021/07/19/save-the-date-expands-symposium-for-librarians-and-data-policy-staff/) was run yesterday.

## PaNOSC updates 
Nothing to report

## Updates on Content

Doru reported that Mousumi (ELI) is preparing a simex-spectroscopy-Jupyter training and also they are preparing training material for ELI beamlines about FLUKA MC simulations. 

Stella has received some Jupyter notebooks from WP5.

Marius confirmed that he is working on converting HERCULES course to e-learning.org but that it had turned out to be more time consuming than expected. 

## Joint landing page
Thomas reported that e.g. ESRF has reported that they didn't understand how pan-learning.org plays together with the training catalogue. Some of the participants shared that impression. It was also reported that it is already hard to find relevant material in a catalogue. 

There was a discussion about whether the workflow in the training catalogue was replicating pan-learning.org. It seems to do that although material in pan-learning can be used in courses with registered students. On the other hand, users do not need to login to use the workflow in the training catalogue. 

It was decided to create a working group who should work on joining the two approaches into a common P&N training portal. The working group consists of:

- Oliver (HZDR)
- Stella (ESS)
- Marius (ESRF)
- Jiri (ELI) + possibly Doru. 


