Project Management Committee Meeting 12/01/2022
===============================================

Participants: Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL),  Ornella De Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni (CERIC-ERIC), Thomas Holm Rod (ESS), Tobias Richter (ESS), Jamie Hall (ILL), Stuart Caunt (ILL), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI), Carsten (XFEL) and Rudolf (ESRF)

--

**1. Update on LATE deliverables/milestones and WPs**

Jordi reported that D7.2 has been submitted and that the WP8 milestone is still pending. Thomas explained that there is a little issue with integrating a solution from WP5 into the e-learning platform. The milestone is nearly achieved, but not yet.

Jordi pointed out that if the milestone is not achieved then the periodic report needs to be changed to explain why it is the case.

**2.	Perioidic Report Update**

The forms:
* Risks : Jordi thanked Tobias and Carsten for the clarifications regarding risks 7, 11 and 12. The PMC agreed that other identified risks are not required to be updated in the EC Funding and Tenders Portal, and they will be followed up via our Google spreadsheet.
* Publications: Jordi reminded to everyone that any PaNOSC sponsored-publication has to be listed in that section.
* Dissemination & Communication: Nicoletta confirmed that the information was updated in the Google Drive. Jordi said that he will updated in the EC Portal
* Open Data: Andy explained that given that PaNOSC is all about open FAIR data there will be hundreds of open datasets and it is not feasible to update this area.
* Gender: Jordi reminded all partners to update this section. Thomas enquired about what is considered a "researcher" and the recommendation from Jordi is to use common sense, given that we have PhDs doing engineering work and some bits of work overlap with research.
* Financial statements: Jordi reminded all partners to update this section. Teodor said that ELI should contact Jordi about incorrect data provided and Jordi replied that this has already taken place and only affects the Internal Financial Report and not the Periodic Report. Jordi is now awaiting the corrected information from ELI.

The Technical Report Part B

Jordi scrolled through the document commenting the different sections and comments made. **It was agreed that all partners and contributors to the Periodic Report should do all their contributions by Thursday 27th of January at 12:00h**. At this point, Jordi will download the Google Docs file and start working with a local copy.

Jordi highlighted that the Deviations section is still missing content from the different partners and asked WP leaders to solve any comments and suggested content in their areas.

The deadline to submit the report is Saturday 29th of January and Jordi ask partners to provide timely contributions in order to avoid having to work on Saturday or having to submit the report late.	

--ENDS--

