
Project Management Committee Meeting 24/11/2021
===============================================


Participants
------------
Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Petra Aulin (ESS), Patrick Fuhrmann (DESY), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL), Ornella De Giacomo (CERIC ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC ERIC), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Nicoletta Carboni (CERIC ERIC)

Minutes
--------

**1.	Update on deliverables/milestones and WPs**

* D1.8 has been reviewed and submitted. Milestone 1.4 has been achieved? (TBC)
* D2.4 has been submitted. D2.2 is ready to submit as well. MS2.3 Implementation of PaNOSC DP framework will need some verification before reporting as achieved.
* D6.2, D6.3 are expected to be delivered on time or latest, by 15 December 2021. M6.2 is on track as well. M6.3 will need some follow up with project partners to register their respective data portals on the EOSC portal as services. ESRF has registered its data portal. In the case of EU XFEL, some consultation with the management board is necessary to register the data portal in EOSC. CERIC-ERIC and ESS have not yet registered their data portal either. 
*	CERIC-ERIC is awaiting comments on D7.2, but otherwise, it is ready to be submitted. 
*	D8.1 is a work in progress at the moment and may not be submitted on time, MS8.5 status is unknown. 
*	Jordi reminded project partners to submit all the pending deliverables and milestones by 15 December 2021 so that efforts can be focused on periodic report preparation in January 2022. 



**2.	Meeting in Copenhagen**

*	Jordi reminded the objectives of the meeting, i.e. Sustainability of the project outcomes, addressing the project issues and preparing necessary mitigation plans. Technical leads should communicate with the management boards to sustain PANOSC outcomes after the completion of the project. PANOSC services to be sustained in the Horizon EOSC calls will be discussed in the meeting.
*	Half-day of the meeting will be dedicated to drafting periodic report.
*	Discussions on WP leads to declare PMs? (TBC)

**3.	Fluka and IPR**

*	None of the project partners is using Fluka. This message will be sent to the RTD ERIC Team. 


**4.	News from ExPaNDS**

*	The new technical coordinator will attend the Copenhagen meeting. 

**4.	News from EOSC**

*	EOSC association general assembly is being organized. Necessary documents to be reviewed have been circulated. Sara Garavelli, Bob Jones and Raimundas Tuminauskas (PSNC),? (Swedish Library?) are the four candidates for three annually renewed director positions.
*	EOSC association has 160 members as of today, and its budget for 2021-22 is 2 million euros (1.2 million euros for staff positions), and they have opened 11 permanent staff positions ex. CTO, General secretary. More information is required on the permanent staff positions. 
*	EOSC future has another review in 2 months, i.e. Mid - January 2021.  
*	EOSC User journey will be presented in this review meeting.


**5.	Use cases dashboard**

*	Jordi and Andy reminded all the partners to submit their use cases.
*	XFEL is planning on submitting two additional use cases. 


**6.	 Upcoming events**
*	LEAPS would support PaNOSC participation at the ESOF event.
*	ESFRI-EOSC conference will take place on 25-26 January 2022, either in Grenoble or Paris. 
