Project Management Committee Meeting 10/11/2021
===============================================


Participants
------------
Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI ERIC), Dario Rocella (CERIC ERIC), Giuseppe La Rocca (EGI), Jamie Hall (ILL), Stuart Caunt (ILL), Erwan Le Gall (ILL), Nicoletta Carboni (CERIC ERIC), Ornella (CERIC ERIC), Petra Aulin (ESS), Sophie Servan (EXPANDS, DESY)

Minutes
--------

**1.	Update on deliverables/milestones and WPs**

*	Internal deadline to submit deliverable drafts to WP1 is 15 November 2021. 
*	Almost all the work packages have updated D1.8 google doc. WP7 and WP8 are expected to provide their inputs by Wednesday 17 November 2021. Project KPIs will be updated in the upcoming periodic report in January 2022.
*	D2.2 has been sent for review to Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF) and ILL. D2.4 should be submitted by 17 November 2021.
*	D6.2 is expecting inputs from WP3,4,5,8. D6.3 is in draft stage and expected to be completed by 17 November 2021. MS6.1 will be updated from D6.3 and regarding MS6.2 ESRF is awaiting inputs from other project partners.
*	D7.2 is missing inputs from EGI and ESRF and they are expected by 15 November 2021. 
*	WP8 workshop was postponed due to insufficient participation. MS8.5 should be ready by 15 November 2021.
*	WP4 is progressing on VISA deployment and federated search API. 
*	WP9 is preparing interviews on women in PANOSC. PANOSC + EXPANDS symposium post event dissemination material will be published soon. ESOF 2022 will take place in Leiden, The Netherlands. It could be of interest for PANOSC and EXPANDS to present at the ESOF 2022. The deadline for paper submission is 30 November 2021. 


**2.	Meeting in Copenhagen**

*	Some of the project deliverables are due on the last day of the project and a delivery date needs to be scheduled. 
*	Resource review per partner per workpackage is important and it will be discussed in the Copenhagen meeting. 
*	Sustainability of PANOSC and EXPANDS outcomes will need to be discussed in the LEAPS context.

**3.	News from ExPaNDS**

*	Paul Miller, DESY has joined EXPANDS as technical coordinator and could possibly join the Copenhagen meeting.
*	A presentation on FAIR assessment of beamlines is scheduled on 15 November 2021.
*	VISA Analysis service prototype activities are progressing with SOLEIL and ALBA. 
*	WP3 EXPANDS is planning on organizing an event to integrate UmbrellaID in the training service catalogue.

**4.	News from EOSC**

*	Feedback on the Horizon Europe workprogramme is requested by the EOSC association. 
*	Research infrastructures will have additional budget to take part in EOSC. 

**5.	Use cases dashboard**

*	ILL is uncertain about having 3 use cases ready before the end of the year. CERIC ERIC use case is almost ready to be delivered. 
*	The project is aiming to deliver 10 use cases.

**6.	 Upcoming events**
*	EXPANDS and PANOSC have very good visibility in EOSC.
*	EXPANDS will be present at SXN2016, January 2022.

 


