Project Management Committee Meeting 08/12/2021
===============================================

Participants
--------------
Andy Goetz (ESRF), Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Sophie Servan (DESY), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL), Tobias Richter (ESS), Dario Rocella (CERIC ERIC),  Jamie Hall (ILL), Stuart Caunt (ILL), Jesper Rude Selkenaes (ESS), Teodor Ivanaoica (ELI ERIC)

Minutes
--------

**1.	Copenhagen debriefs**
Overall attendees were happy with the outcomes of the meeting. F2F meetings are more efficient compared to remote ones. Jordi suggested WP leads to encourage partners to contribute to the meetings more. 

**2.	Update on deliverables/milestones and WPs**

•	MS2.3 will be reported achieved. 
•	MS6.3 should be achieved before the end of the year. The challenge for MS6.3 is to register sufficient services on the EOSC portal after 3 years of project. The portal interface is not very use friendly. To register services, the providers have to accept terms of use, access policy and privacy policy of the EOSC portal. Also, the updates regarding privacy policy are not applied retroactively. Minimum privacy policy requirements could be shared amongst the PaNOSC community. Some of the facilities are yet to register themselves as service providers on the EOSC portal.
•	D6.2 is missing some ESRF inputs and it should be completed soon. D6.3 will also be submitted be soon. The requested deadline for these deliverables is 22 December 2021. 
•	D7.2 revised version should be submitted soon. 
•	MS8.5 e-learning virtual facilities will be reported achieved and a short paragraph would be submitted by the end of the week.
•	D1.8 has been reviewed and submitted. Milestone 1.4 has been achieved? (TBC)
•	D2.4 has been submitted. D2.2 is ready to submit as well. MS2.3 Implementation of PaNOSC DP framework will need some verification before reporting achieved.

**3.	Fluka and IPR**
•	Network issue.

**4.	Preparing the Periodic Report & January PMC meetings**
•	Jordi suggested the PMC members to meet every Wednesday in January 2022. 
•	Network issue. 

**5. ExPaNDs news**
•	Network issue. 

**6.	EOSC news**
•	Rudolf informed about the work on the ongoing deliverables in EOSC Future ahead of the review in January 2022.
•	Volker Beckmann had emailed Andy for a meeting with Soleil and other French universities to discuss participation in EOSC.

**7.Use cases**
•	Network issue.

**8. Upcoming events**
•	Network issue. 

**9. AOB**
•	Network issue. 
