Project Management Committee Meeting 09/02/2022
===============================================

Participants: Jordi Bodera Sempere (ESRF), Rudolf Dimper (ESRF), Jean-Francois Perrin (ESRF), Jayesh Wagh (ESRF), Fabio Dal Antonia (XFEL),  Ornella de Giacomo (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta Carboni (CERIC-ERIC), Tobias Richter (ESS), Sophie Servan (ExPaNDs),
Erwan le Gall (ILL), Teodor Ivanoaica (ELI)


**1. Update on late WP8 milestone e-learning virtual facilities**

Tobias is expecting to hear from Thomas. Jordi informed that this milestone has been reported as achieved because the e-learning platform was demonstrated on one of the RI. 
Teodor mentioned that there will be additional activities in the upcoming months.

**2. Periodic Report & Review update / news**
Jordi informed the report has been submitted and he does not have further information on the review procedure. 
We should await feedback from Project officer on the periodic report and review to move ahead with grant amendment concerning ELI ERIC and EGI. 

**3. EXPANDS news - Sophie Servan**
Patrick and Andy are planning to organize a joint PANOSC-EXPANDS all hands f2f meeting to be scheduled in June 2022 or September 2022 in Grenoble. 
Event could be organized in Prague with ELI as local organizer.
EXPANDS has setup a dashboard for objectives on https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/ExPaNDS-objectives-dashboard-per-partner
All the EXPANDS services with the relevant metadata will be added in the FAIR tools catalogue. EXPANDS will share the feedback with PANOSC on this activity. 

**3. EOSC news - Rudolf Dimper**
EOSC association is gathering data on in kind contribution to EOSC. EOSC association members from all the member states will provide this data through a survey. Rudolf suggested to not reply to the survey as it is not clear what counts as in kind contribution. 
EOSC Future had another review and a consolidated rewiew report is yet to be delivered. Next review in June 2022. The project partners are gathering use cases. 
ESRF science projects will require IT resources and it could be an interesting use case to share with the EC.
GEANT is leading procurement activities in EOSC Future similar to OCRE. GEANT is now requesting use cases from the project partners. A direct access to compute resources is essential for users and it has been highlighted in one of the deliverable.
ESRF data catalogue is registered on EOSC thanks to support from EGI colleagues. Discussions are ongoing with OpenAIRE to making ESRF data FINDABLE.



**4. WP leaders updates**

WP1 - Jordi will send out an internal financial report by 11 February 2022. Jordi is preparing for upcoming grant amendment. 
 
WP6 - Jean-Francois shared outcomes of the UmbrellaID AAI meeting. All RIs will share UmbrellaID contact person/persons (both management and technical activities) with Jean-Francois. All the representatives will vote on activities planned for the next year. CVMFS activities are ongoing, VISA is being deployed by the PANOSC RIs. ESRF used VISA for training session at the user meeting and we had a positive feedback from users. Very likely VISA will be deployed on multiple ESRF beamlines. 
 
WP4- Fabio informed that VISA deployment activities are on track. ESS is linking the federated search to VISA and future activities will include HPC resources connection. EXPANDS partners are also putting in efforts for VISA deployment.
 
WP3- Tobias informed that preparations for D3.3 ,D3.4 and D3.5 are ongoing. A writing session is schedule next week for the deliverables? Tobias will add Teodor to WP3 mailing list.
 
WP9 - Nicoletta shared WP9 updates. 3 video interviews were released in Jan 2022. WP leads were invited to share and communicate achievements with WP9 to further disseminate to wider community. Jordi discussed the low spending under WP9, this could be due to reporting activities under the technical wps and not under WP9. PANOSC activities could be shared in the future ESRF user meetings. ESS and ELI could disseminate PANOSC activities in their user meetings. INSTRUCT will organize a structural biology conference and some use cases from EXPANDS could be used. Jean-Francois discussed if UmbrellaID communication through WP9 would be eligible for declaring costs on PANOSC. Jordi will check and get back to Jean-Francois.Teodor will participate in ELI data workshop and could present PANOSC activities from technical WPs. 
 
 WP8- Jordi informed that next meeting will take place on 23rd Feb and it will focus on WP8.
 
 
 
 
 
 



